Add docs on sitemaps for Next.js. (#28346)
vercel/next.js: docs/advanced-features/sitemaps.md

---
description: Learn how to add a sitemap to your Next.js project, along with a robots.txt file for optimal SEO.
---

# Sitemaps

> To improve your Search Engine Optimization (SEO), you might want to add a sitemap or `robots.txt` file to your Next.js site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To improve your Search Engine Optimization (SEO), you might want to add a [sitemap](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/sitemaps/build-sitemap) or [`robots.txt`](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/robots/intro) file to your Next.js site.
```

A **sitemap** defines the relationship between pages of your site. Search engines utilize
this file to more accurately index your site. You can also provide additional information
such as last updated time, how frequently the page changes, and more.

A **robots.txt** file tells search engines which pages or files the crawler can or can't request from your site.

## Static Sitemaps

> If your site does not update frequently, you might currently have a static sitemap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your site does not update frequently, you can use a static sitemap.
```

This file will dynamically build a sitemap based on your `/pages` directory.

```js
import { writeFileSync } from 'fs'
import { globby } from 'globby'

async function generate() {
  const pages = await globby([
    'pages/*.js', // Include all pages
    '!pages/_*.js', // Exclude _app or _document
    '!pages/api', // Exclude API Routes
    '!pages/404.js', // Exclude 404
  ])

  const sitemap = `
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <urlset xmlns="http://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9">
        ${pages
          .map((page) => {
            const path = page.replace('pages', '').replace('.js', '')
            const route = path === '/index' ? '' : path

            return `
              <url>
                  <loc>${`https://nextjs.org${route}`}</loc>
              </url>
            `
          })
          .join('')}
    </urlset>
    `

  writeFileSync('public/sitemap.xml', sitemap)
}

generate()
```

> **Note:** This Node.js script is using [ES Modules](https://nodejs.org/api/esm.html), denoted by the `.mjs` extension. You could also write this script with [CommonJS](https://nodejs.org/api/modules.html#modules_modules_commonjs_modules) if you prefer.

> Finally, add `postbuild` script in your `package.json` to run this script after `next build` completes.

Author: ```suggestion
Finally, add [`postbuild` script](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/using-npm/scripts#pre--post-scripts) in your `package.json` to run this script after `next build` completes.
```

Your generated sitemap file gets created at `public/sitemap.xml`, which is then served as a [static file](/docs/basic-features/static-file-serving.md) at the root of your site.

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "next build",

>     "postbuild": "node ./scripts/generate-sitemap.mjs",

Reviewer: Is this a standard? I think they actually would need to modify the `build` script

Author: https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/using-npm/scripts#pre--post-scripts

Reviewer 2: FYI `pre` and `post` hooks for user-defined scripts are not supported in yarn berry 2.x \ 3.x

> In particular, we intentionally don't support arbitrary pre and post hooks for user-defined scripts (such as prestart). This behavior, inherited from npm, caused scripts to be implicit rather than explicit, obfuscating the execution flow. It also led to surprising executions with yarn serve also running yarn preserve.

See also: https://yarnpkg.com/advanced/lifecycle-scripts

    "dev": "next dev",
    "start": "next start",
    "lint": "next lint"
  }
}
```

## External Content

If you have externally hosted data (e.g., a CMS), you'll need to make an API request
before you can create your sitemap. This implementation will vary depending on your data source,
but the idea is similar. To demonstrate, I've created an example using placeholder data.

First, create a new file at `pages/sitemap.xml.js`.

```js
import React from 'react'

class Sitemap extends React.Component {

>   static async getInitialProps({ res }) {

Reviewer: Should we change `getInitialProps` to `getServerSideProps()`?

Author: There are some issues with `getServerSideProps` here. I had to explicitly change it back to `getInitialProps`.

Reviewer: What issues did you have? Are you expecting some of this code to run on the client instead of server?

Author: I'm pretty sure I'm wrong - I must be remembering something else. Tested and it worked!

    const request = await fetch(EXTERNAL_DATA_URL)
    const posts = await request.json()

    res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/xml')
    res.write(createSitemap(posts))
    res.end()
  }
}

export default Sitemap
```

When the route `/sitemap.xml` is initially loaded, we will fetch posts from an external data source
and then write an XML file as the response.

```js
import React from 'react'

const EXTERNAL_DATA_URL = 'https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts'

const createSitemap = (posts) => `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <urlset xmlns="http://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9">
        ${posts
          .map(({ id }) => {
            return `
                <url>
                    <loc>${`${EXTERNAL_DATA_URL}/${id}`}</loc>
                </url>
            `
          })
          .join('')}
    </urlset>
    `

class Sitemap extends React.Component {

>   static async getInitialProps({ res }) {

Reviewer: Same here, should we change `getInitialProps` to `getServerSideProps()`?

Author: https://github.com/vercel/next.js/pull/28346#discussion_r693091871

    const request = await fetch(EXTERNAL_DATA_URL)
    const posts = await request.json()

>     res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/xml')

Reviewer: How about a `Cache-Control` header, probably use stale-while-revalidate?

Author: Good idea 😄 Will add!

>     res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/xml')

Author: ```suggestion
    res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/xml')
    res.setHeader('Cache-Control', 'public, s-maxage=1200, stale-while-revalidate=600')
```

If your website does not update frequently, you can manually create a static sitemap.
This is a basic `.xml` file defining the content of your site. Here's a simple example:

```xml
<urlset xmlns="http://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9">
  <url>
      <loc>https://nextjs.org</loc>
  </url>
  <url>
      <loc>https://nextjs.org/docs</loc>
  </url>
</urlset>
```

## Dynamic Sitemaps

If your site frequently changes, you should dynamically create a sitemap. First, let's explore an example where your content is based on [file-system routing](/docs/routing/introduction.md) (e.g., contained inside the `/pages` directory).

This example is using [globby](https://github.com/sindresorhus/globby) to fetch our list of routes.

```bash
npm install globby --save-dev
```

Next, we can create a Node script at `scripts/generate-sitemap.mjs`.
This file will dynamically build a sitemap based on your `/pages` directory.

```js
import { writeFileSync } from 'fs'
import { globby } from 'globby'

async function generate() {
  const pages = await globby([
    'pages/*.js', // Include all pages
    '!pages/_*.js', // Exclude _app or _document
    '!pages/api', // Exclude API Routes

>     '!pages/404.js', // Exclude 404

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't it also exclude the [500 error page](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/custom-error-page#500-page)?

    <li><a href="https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/with-next-sitemap">with-next-sitemap</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

To improve your Search Engine Optimization (SEO), you might want to add a [sitemap](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/sitemaps/build-sitemap) or [`robots.txt`](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/robots/intro) file to your Next.js website.

A **sitemap** defines the relationship between pages of your site. Search engines utilize
this file to more accurately index your site. You can also provide additional information
such as last updated time, how frequently the page changes, and more.

A **robots.txt** file tells search engines which pages or files the crawler can or can't request from your site.

## Static Sitemaps

If your website does not update frequently, you can manually create a static sitemap.
This is a basic `.xml` file defining the content of your site. Here's a simple example:

```xml
<urlset xmlns="http://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9">
  <url>
      <loc>https://nextjs.org</loc>
  </url>
  <url>
      <loc>https://nextjs.org/docs</loc>
  </url>
</urlset>
```

## Dynamic Sitemaps

> If your site frequently changes, you should dynamically create a sitemap. First, let's explore an example where your content is based on [file-system routing](/docs/routing/introduction.md) (e.g., contained inside the `/pages` directory).

Reviewer 4: > example where your content is based on [file-system routing](/docs/routing/introduction.md)

if i am reading this correctly, the example does not handle dynamic route segments, correct?

This example is using [globby](https://github.com/sindresorhus/globby) to fetch our list of routes.

```bash
npm install globby --save-dev
```

Next, we can create a Node script at `scripts/generate-sitemap.mjs`.
This file will dynamically build a sitemap based on your `/pages` directory.

```js
import { writeFileSync } from 'fs'
import { globby } from 'globby'

async function generate() {
  const pages = await globby([
    'pages/*.js', // Include all pages
    '!pages/_*.js', // Exclude _app or _document
    '!pages/api', // Exclude API Routes
    '!pages/404.js', // Exclude 404
  ])

>   const sitemap = `

Reviewer 4: in case you're open to using a third-party library for constructing the xml string - the `unified` ecosystem has [`xast-util-sitemap`](https://github.com/syntax-tree/xast-util-sitemap)

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <urlset xmlns="http://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9">
        ${pages
          .map((page) => {
            const path = page.replace('pages', '').replace('.js', '')
            const route = path === '/index' ? '' : path

            return `
              <url>

>                   <loc>${`https://nextjs.org${route}`}</loc>

Reviewer 5: This may be unsafe and could contain characters that are not allowed by XML.

Your generated sitemap file gets created at `public/sitemap.xml`, which is then served as a [static file](/docs/basic-features/static-file-serving.md) at the root of your site.

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "next build",
    "postbuild": "node ./scripts/generate-sitemap.mjs",
    "dev": "next dev",
    "start": "next start",
    "lint": "next lint"
  }
}
```

## External Content

If you have externally hosted data (e.g., a CMS), you'll need to make an API request
before you can create your sitemap. This implementation will vary depending on your data source,
but the idea is similar. To demonstrate, I've created an example using placeholder data.

First, create a new file at `pages/sitemap.xml.js`.

```js
export async function getServerSideProps({ res }) {
  const request = await fetch(EXTERNAL_DATA_URL)
  const posts = await request.json()

  res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/xml')
  res.setHeader(
    'Cache-Control',
    'public, s-maxage=1200, stale-while-revalidate=600'
  )
  res.write(createSitemap(posts))
  res.end()

  return {
    props: {},
  }
}

> export default function Sitemap() {

Reviewer 4: i think it looks a bit weird as a page component - could this also be a api route + rewrite?

  return null
}
```

When the route `/sitemap.xml` is initially loaded, we will fetch posts from an external data source
and then write an XML file as the response.

```js
const EXTERNAL_DATA_URL = 'https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts'

const createSitemap = (posts) => `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <urlset xmlns="http://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9">
        ${posts
          .map(({ id }) => {
            return `
                <url>

>                     <loc>${`${EXTERNAL_DATA_URL}/${id}`}</loc>

Reviewer 4: why does the sitemap list the external data sources?
